today on app judgment an app that
translates text in real time with your
phone's video camera you'll have to see
this to believe it
this episode of app judgment is brought
to you by the national fight against
drunk driving over the limit under
arrest who wants to spend the holidays
in jail welcome to app judgment your
source for mobile app reviews from
revision3 I'm Graham and today we're
looking at Word Lens developed by quest
visual this is a groundbreaking app that
lets you translate and manipulate text
in real time using your device's onboard
video camera when I first heard about
this app I was convinced it was some
sort of hoax but it's not it's real and
it's kind of mind-blowing the app is
free and it's currently only available
on the iPhone 4
the iPhone 3GS and the latest iPod touch
how is this app free you might ask well
it is and it isn't once you download the
app you'll only have two free demo
features to try out one demo reverses
any text at the app sees the other demo
erases any text that the app sees these
features functions simply as a
proof-of-concept to show that the app
actually does work but if you want to
use Word Lens to translate text you have
to purchase the language packs within
the app as a premium add-on currently
there are only two language packs one
for English to Spanish translation and
another for Spanish to English
translation both are priced at $4.99
each and the developers say that more
language packs are coming soon the app
is simple to use select the translation
you want to use and then point your
camera at any clearly visible text the
app translates the text in real time and
then overlays the translated text on top
of the image it even preserves the color
and the size of the original text pretty
amazing right this is the kind of
futuristic stuff that we were promised
in science fiction movies we may not
have jetpacks yet but we do have
augmented reality instant translation
technology on our phones we've got a lot
more to talk about so stick around
I'm gonna go translate some stuff over
there and I'll be right back after we
thank our sponsor far too many people
don't understand the alcohol drugs and
driving do not mix I think people know
that it's a not good thing to
Beach drunk or to do all kinds of
illicit drugs but the thing is even if
you do do those things the stupidest
thing you could possibly do is get
behind the wheel you'll hurt yourself
you'll hurt other people and quite
frankly even if you don't hurt yourself
or other people you get caught you're
gonna be spending a pile of money
a pile of money getting yourself out of
the problem and a pile of money and even
trying to say that you've got something
on your record you're trying to find a
job so aside from the common sense of
not doing it la fischels will be out in
force over the all over the country from
December 16th through the 30th cracking
down on drunk drivers beyond putting
your life at risk you can cost yourself
a bundle of time jail time the loss of
your driver's license higher insurance
rates and dozens of other and
anticipated expenses from attorneys fees
and court cost car towing repairs all
that list goes on and on and on and the
thing is if you're even thinking about
getting behind the wheel all you have to
do is realize that you can get a friend
to give you a ride you can get a taxi
lots of solutions plan ahead don't drink
and drive and stay safe these holidays
so clearly word lens is groundbreaking
but as you might expect there are a few
downsides the conditions have to be just
right for the app to work properly
you need to make sure that you have very
clearly printed text on a solid
background and plenty of available light
it works like a charm here in the studio
underneath the bright lights but in real
world testing I had mixed results the
app also has trouble with certain
typefaces and it can get confused if the
font is too bold or too stylized you'll
also occasionally run into a word or two
that the app simply doesn't recognize
but you know I find it hard to judge
this app too harshly only because of how
well it works under the right conditions
and I'm still in disbelief that this
even works at all this is one of those
apps that has to be seen in person to be
believed and the wow factor is off the
charts so a quick recap word linz
translates text instantly using your
device's video camera it's simple and
easy to use and under the right
conditions it works beautifully after
the initial install and downloading your
preferred language packs the app doesn't
require an internet connection to do any
translating it's all offline downsides
are that the conditions have to be just
right for the app to work properly and
there are a few bugs here and there but
hey this app just launched so we'll cut
it some slack
also this is Jenna
app that uses the freemium business
model in that the app is free to
download but certain features like the
language packs must be purchased
separately but don't let that stop you
it's still free to try out so what are
you waiting for
if you have the latest iPhone or iPod
Touch you really have to see this for
yourself
download Word Lens if you haven't
already are there any other cool apps
you'd like to see on the show let me
know personally at twitter.com slash
graham hancock send an email to the show
at app judgment at revision3.com and be
sure to visit us at Facebook Twitter
YouTube and on our home page at
revision3.com slash app judgment thanks
for watching